
= Export into Shapefiles

ESRI Shapefile is very common GIS file format. For more information about
shapefiles see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shapefile and
http://www.esri.com/library/whitepapers/pdfs/shapefile.pdf .

== Setup Section

The setup section has the following format:

  setup :Shp do
    point :pois do
      name POIs
      string :type, 30
      string :id, 20
      string :name, 100
    end
  end

Here a shapefile (Format <tt>:Shp</tt>) containing point geometries (+point+)
with the symbolic name <tt>:pois</tt> is defined. Its filename should be
<tt>POIs</tt> (plus suffix <tt>.shp</tt>, <tt>.shx</tt>, and <tt>.dbf</tt>,
respectively). If no name is given Osmexport will use the symbolic name
(minus the colon) as the base name of the Shapefile). It should contain
three attributes of type String (+string+) with different symbolic names
and lengths.

Shapefiles can only support one geometry type, either +point+, +polyline+,
or +polygon+. If you need several geometry types, you need to define
several shapefiles.

Supported attribute types are +string+, +number+, and +boolean+. Booleans
are always one byte, the other types need a maximum length. (The allowed
attribute types for shapefiles in general are not documented well, see
http://www.clicketyclick.dk/databases/xbase/format/data_types.html . Please
contact the OSM Library mailinglist if you need other types.)

== Nodes/Ways/Relations Sections

Say you want to export all nodes with tourism tags into the shapefile.
You'll need this code:

  nodes do
    if tourism
      :pois << {:id => id, :name => name, :type => tourism}
    end
  end

The middle line is the important one. It instructs the exporter to
add a shape to the shapefile with the symbolic name <tt>:pois</tt>.
This shape automatically contains the geometry of this node and some
attributes: The OSM ID, the value of the name tag and the value of the
tourism tag as type.

The same format is used for ways. You can't add a relation to a shapefile
because it doesn't have a geometry.

